# machine_learning_receipe_generation

This project delves into whether it is possible for computers to learn receipes and more importantly, the sequential steps needed to produce a dish. This project involved much data annoation and data labelling in order to label video datasets for ingredients, motions, as well as tools in order to craft a dish. The goal was to implement learning and traversal algorithms in order to teach the machine the correct path to generate a receipe. Further research into such an area can advance Artificial Intelligence as well as applications for computer involvement in the culinary industry.

Preprocessing and FOON structure structure setup were taken care of by research assistant, but blunt of algorithmic work and AI is contained within search.py. Some of the search algorithms utilized include BFS and IDS in order to traverse the FOON network structure in ordder to get from one logical sequential cooking step to another via a motion edge. 

There is also greedy heuristics at play in order for the computer to learn which cooking steps to take to reach a particular output, since there can be many potential paths. One includes utilizing the steps that have the highest success rate since in real life, computers will most likely have a higher success rate of performing some tasks than other (simpler tasks may have higher success rate than more complex/intricate/delicate tasks, for example). The other experimented heuristic includes the least amount of input objects so that there are fewer variables at play.

Overall, this project provides a great opportunity to investigate the application of data and computer science principles such as data collection and annotation, artificial intelligence, machine learning, as well as graph traversal in order to explore the possibility to integrating computers into the culinary process of generating and creating receipes. This provides a variety of implications for further research such as robotic assisted cooking as well as new receipe generation via generative AI.
